SEC T+2 settlement transition announcement
Source: https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2017-68-0
Captured (UTC): 2026-10-10T18:01:09.673363+00:00
Reproduction: US federal government text

SEC.gov | SEC Adopts T+2 Settlement Cycle for Securities Transactions
Skip to search field
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
A locked padlock
)
              or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
SEC homepage
Menu
Close
Search SEC.gov & EDGAR
Search
Search Filings
Search Filings
Full Text Search
Latest Filings
Mutual Fund Search
Variable Insurance Products Search
SIC Codes
CIK Lookup
Public Dissemination Service (PDS)
Search Assistance
Submit Filings
Submit Filings
EDGAR Filer Management Portal
EDGAR Filing Portal
Online Forms Management Portal
EDGAR Next
Forms Index
Filer Support & Resources
Data & Research
Data & Research
Data Library
Statistics & Data Visualizations
Structured Data
Investment Management Data
Open Data at the SEC
Rules, Enforcement, & Compliance
Rules & Regulations
Rulemaking Activity
Submit Public Comments
Staff Guidance
No-Action, Interpretive, and Exemptive Letters
Self-Regulatory Organization Rulemaking
Public Petitions for Rulemaking
Enforcement & Litigation
Litigation Releases
Administrative Proceedings
Administrative Law Judge Orders and Initial Decisions
Trading Suspensions
Distributions to Harmed Investors
Receiverships
Compliance
Examination Priorities
Risk Alerts
Compliance Outreach Program
Proposed Rules
What's New
Whistleblower Program
Featured Topics
Featured Topics
Crypto Task Force
Cybersecurity
Market Structure Analytics
Saving and Investing for Military Personnel
Saving and Investing for Teachers
SEC-CFTC Harmonization Initiative
Treasury Clearing Implementation
About
About
Mission
Commissioners
Divisions & Offices
Division & Office Directors
Advisory Committees
Budget & Performance
Reports & Publications
Commission Votes
Contact the SEC
Careers
Submit a Tip or Complaint
Newsroom
|
Investors
Small Businesses
Whistleblowers
Newsroom
|
Investors
Small Businesses
Whistleblowers
Search SEC.gov & EDGAR
Search
More in this Section
Newsroom
Press Releases
Speeches & Statements
Meetings & Events
Videos
Social Media Directory
Podcasts
What's New
Newsroom
Press Releases
Speeches & Statements
Meetings & Events
Videos
Social Media Directory
Podcasts
What's New
Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
SEC Adopts T+2 Settlement Cycle for Securities Transactions
Press Release
SEC Adopts T+2 Settlement Cycle for Securities Transactions
For Immediate Release
2017-68
Washington D.C., March 22, 2017 —
The Securities and Exchange Commission today adopted an amendment to shorten by one business day the standard settlement cycle for most broker-dealer securities transactions.  Currently, the standard settlement cycle for these transactions is three business days, known as T+3.  The amended rule shortens the settlement cycle to two business days, T+2.
The amended rule is designed to enhance efficiency, reduce risk, and ensure a coordinated and expeditious transition by market participants to a shortened standard settlement cycle.
“As technology improves, new products emerge, and trading volumes grow, it is increasingly obvious that the outdated T+3 settlement cycle is no longer serving the best interests of the American people,” said SEC Acting Chairman Michael Piwowar.  “The SEC remains committed to ensuring that U.S. securities regulation is reflective of modern times, and in shortening the settlement cycle by one day we aim to increase efficiency and reduce risk for market participants.”
Broker-dealers will be required to comply with the amended rule beginning on Sept. 5, 2017.
To assist broker-dealers, other securities professionals and the investing public in their preparation for the implementation of a T+2 settlement cycle, the Commission has established an e-mail address –
T2settlement@sec.gov
– for the submission of inquiries to SEC staff.
*   *   *
FACT SHEET
Shortening the Trade Settlement Cycle
SEC Open Meeting
March 22, 2017
The amended Rule 15c6-1(a) would prohibit a broker-dealer from effecting or entering into a contract for the purchase or sale of a security that provides for payment of funds and delivery of securities later than T+2, unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties at the time of the transaction.  As stated in the rule, the T+2 requirement would not apply to certain categories of securities, such as exempted securities.
Generally, this change would mean that when an investor buys a security, the brokerage firm must receive payment from the investor no later than two business days after the trade is executed.  When an investor sells a security, the investor must deliver to the brokerage firm the investor’s security no later than two business days after the sale.  For example, if an investor sells shares of a particular stock on Monday, the transaction would settle on Wednesday.
The amended rule would apply the T+2 settlement cycle to the same securities transactions currently covered by the T+3 settlement cycle.  These include transactions for stocks, bonds, municipal securities, exchange-traded funds, certain mutual funds, and limited partnerships that trade on an exchange.
The compliance date for the amendment to Rule 15c6-1(a) is Sept. 5, 2017, which is consistent with the target implementation date set by the Industry Steering Committee.
###
Last Reviewed or Updated:
March 24, 2017
Return to top
SEC homepage
About the SEC
Budget & Performance
Careers
Commission Votes
Contact
Contracts
Transparency
Accessibility & Disability
Super Intelligence
FOIA
Inspector General
No FEAR Act Data
Ombuds
SEC Excess Personal Property Guidance
Websites
Investor.gov
Related Sites
USA.gov
Site Information
Plain Writing
Privacy & Security
Site Map
Stay connected. Sign up for email updates.
Your email address
Sign Up
X
Facebook
Instagram
RSS
YouTube
Email Updates
